Document workarounds for adding Azure AD Graph permissions (#14858)
microsoftgraph/microsoft-graph-docs: concepts/migrate-azure-ad-graph-permissions-howto.md

---

> title: "Use Microsoft Graph to assign Azure AD Graph permissions to an app"

Reviewer: @FaithOmbongi , can you please surface this new topic in the conceptual TOC? Thanks.

Author: @Lauragra , done.

> [!CAUTION]
> Any app using Azure AD Graph will still stop functioning after June 30, 2022. For more information, see [Migrate Azure AD Graph apps to Microsoft Graph](migrate-azure-ad-graph-overview.md).

## Option 1: Use the Microsoft Graph REST API

The Microsoft Graph [application](/graph/api/resources/application) API includes a **requiredResourceAccess** property that is a collection of  [requiredResourceAccess](/graph/api/resources/requiredresourceaccess) objects. Use this property to assign Azure AD Graph permissions following the steps below.

### Prerequisites

To complete the following steps, you need the following resources and privileges:

+ Run the HTTP requests in a tool of your choice, for example in your app, through [Graph Explorer](https://aka.ms/ge), or Postman.
+ Run the APIs as a user in a Global Administrator or Application Administrator role. For more information about the actions supported by these roles, see [Azure AD built-in roles](/azure/active-directory/roles/permissions-reference).

> + Be assigned the `Application.ReadWrite.All` permission.

Author: Very well noted.

> <!---

Author: @yiheguo has confirmed that we shouldn't make this public.

1. Search for and select **Azure Active Directory**.
1. Under **Manage**, select **App registrations**.
1. In the **App registrations** window, select the **All Applications** tab then select the application for which you added Azure AD Graph permissions.
1. From the left pane of the window, under **Manage**, select **API Permissions**.
1. In the **Configured permissions** section of the window, you should see the permissions you added in Step 2 above. If the permissions aren't listed, refresh your browser.
1. Carefully review the permissions that the application requires. To consent, select **Grant admin consent**.

## Option 2: Use Microsoft Graph PowerShell SDK

The [Update-MgApplication](/powershell/module/microsoft.graph.applications/update-mgapplication?view=graph-powershell-1.0&preserve-view=true) cmdlet in Microsoft Graph PowerShell includes a **RequiredResourceAccess** parameter that is a collection of **IMicrosoftGraphRequiredResourceAccess** objects. Use this parameter to assign Azure AD Graph permissions following the steps below.

### Prerequisites

> To complete the following steps, your PowerShell app needs the following resources and privileges:
> 
> + Be granted the Global Administrator or Application Administrator Azure AD roles. For more information about the actions supported by these roles, see [Azure AD built-in roles](/azure/active-directory/roles/permissions-reference).
> + Be assigned the `Application.ReadWrite.All` permission.
> + An authenticated PowerShell session.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To complete the following steps, the following is required:

+ An authenticated PowerShell session (e.g. using `Connect-MgGraph`).
+ Microsoft Graph PowerShell must be granted the `Application.ReadWrite.All` permission.
+ The signed-in user must be granted the Global Administrator or Application Administrator Azure AD directory roles, or be owner of the target app registration. For more information about the actions supported by these roles, see [Azure AD built-in roles](/azure/active-directory/roles/permissions-reference).
```

> ### Step 1: Identify the permission id's for the Azure AD Graph permissions you need for your app

Reviewer 2: Many of the suggestions I made for the previous approach apply here as well, so I won't repeat them.

        ResourceAccess = @( 

                ## Replace the following with values of id and type for all permissions - both new and existing permissions - you want to grant the app
                @{ 
                    # User.Read delegated permission Sign in and read user profile 
                    id = "311a71cc-e848-46a1-bdf8-97ff7156d8e6";  
                    type = "Scope"; 
                }, 
                @{ 
                    # Application.Read.All app-only permission to view application data
                    id = "3afa6a7d-9b1a-42eb-948e-1650a849e176"; 
                    type = "Role"; 
                }
            ) 
     } 
} 

Update-MgApplication -ApplicationId $applicationId -RequiredResourceAccess $app.RequiredResourceAccess 
```

Run the script using the following command
```powershell
.\updatePermissions.ps1
```

### Response

The following is an example of the output. This verifies the permissions that have been granted to the app.

```powershell
Welcome To Microsoft Graph!

Id                                   Type
--                                   ----
311a71cc-e848-46a1-bdf8-97ff7156d8e6 Scope
3afa6a7d-9b1a-42eb-948e-1650a849e176 Role

> ```

Reviewer 3: I don't think you get to see the permission Ids and types in the response. 
"Welcome To Microsoft Graph!" seems to be the only response after running script updatePermission.ps1
